LIFE LEXICON
  Release 30, 2019 ? ?
  ASCII version

INTRODUCTION
  This is a lexicon of terms relating to John Horton Conway's
Game of Life.  It is also available in single-page and multipage
HTML versions.
  This lexicon was originally compiled between 1997 and 2006 by
Stephen A. Silver, and was updated in 2016-18 by Dave Greene and David
Bell.  See below for additional credits.
  The latest versions of this lexicon (both HTML and ASCII) can be
found at the Life Lexicon Home Page, http://conwaylife.com/ref/lexicon/.

CREDITS
  The largest single source for the early versions of this lexicon was
a glossary compiled by Alan Hensel "with indispensable help from John
Conway, Dean Hickerson, David Bell, Bill Gosper, Bob Wainwright, Noam
Elkies, Nathan Thompson, Harold McIntosh, and Dan Hoey".
  Other sources include the works listed in the bibliography at the
end of this lexicon, as well as pattern collections by Alan Hensel and
David Bell (and especially Dean Hickerson's file stamp.l in the latter
collection), and the web sites of Mark Niemiec, Paul Callahan, Achim
Flammenkamp, Robert Wainwright and Heinrich Koenig.  Recent releases
also use a lot of information from Dean Hickerson's header to his
1995 stamp file (http://conwaylife.com/ref/DRH/stamps.html).
  Most of the information on recent results is from the discoverers
themselves, or from Nathaniel Johnston's excellent resources at
http://www.conwaylife.com, including both the LifeWiki and the
discussion forums.
  The following people all provided useful comments on earlier releases
of this lexicon:  David Bell, Nicolay Beluchenko, Johan Bontes, Daniel
Collazo, Scot Ellison, Nick Gotts, Ivan Fomichev, Dave Greene, Alan
Hensel, Dean Hickerson, Dieter Leithner, Mark Niemiec, Gabriel Nivasch,
Andrzej Okrasinski, Arie Paap, Peter Rott, Chris Rowett, Tony Smith,
Ken Takusagawa, Andrew Trevorrow, Malcolm Tyrrell, and the
conwaylife.com forum users with the handles 'thunk' and 'Apple Bottom'.

  The format, errors, use of British English and anything else you
might want to complain about are by Stephen Silver - except that for
post-Version 25 definitions, everything besides the British English
may well be Dave Greene's fault instead.

COPYING
  This lexicon is copyright (C) Stephen Silver, 1997-2018.  It may be
freely copied, modified and distributed under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported licence (CC BY-SA 3.0),
as long as due credit is given.  This includes not just credit to those
who have contributed in some way to the present version (see above),
but also credit to those who have made any modifications.

LEXICOGRAPHIC ORDER
  I have adopted the following convention: all characters (including
spaces) other than letters and digits are ignored for the purposes of
ordering the entries in this lexicon.  (Many terms are used by some
people as a single word, with or without a hyphen, and by others as two
words.  My convention means that I do not have to list these in two
separate places.  Indeed, I list them only once, choosing whichever
form seems most common or sensible.)  Digits lexicographically precede
letters.

FORMAT
  The format used in the ASCII version of this lexicon is loosely
based on that of the Jargon File.  In particular, the keywords are
enclosed in colons and selected references to them are enclosed in
curly brackets.  The curly brackets will not be of much use unless
you have a programmable text editor, in which case you could program
it to jump from a reference to the corresponding definition when you
hit a certain key.  (The file lifelex.el, which you should have
received with this lexicon, provides such a facility for GNU Emacs.)
If you don't want the curly brackets you can safely remove them with
two find and replace operations, since they are not used for any other
purpose in this file.  The colons are more generally useful.  For
example, a search for ":foo" will take you straight to the definition
of the first word beginning with "foo" (or at least it would if there
were any).
  The diagrams in this lexicon are in a very standard format.  You
should be able to simply copy a pattern, paste it into a new file and
run it in your favourite Life program.  Of course if you use Golly
(http://golly.sf.net) then you can paste the pattern directly into the
program.  If you view this lexicon in GNU Emacs and use lifelex.el then
you should be able to load a pattern into your Life program with a
single keypress, without needing to copy or paste.
  The diagrams use an asterisk to represent a live cell.  If this looks
ugly with the font you use then you can change to O or o with a global
replace.  I have restricted myself to diagrams of size 64x64 or less.
  Most definitions that have a diagram have also some data in brackets
after the keyword.  Oscillators are marked as pn (where n is a positive
integer), meaning that the period is n (p1 indicates a still life).
Wicks are marked in the same way but with the word "wick" added.  For
spaceships the speed (as a fraction of c, the speed of light), the
direction and the period are given.  Fuses are marked with speed and
period and have the word "fuse" added.  Wicks and fuses are infinite in
extent and so have necessarily been truncated, with the ends stabilized
wherever practical.

SCOPE
  This lexicon covers only Conway's Life, and provides no information
about other cellular automata.  David Bell has written articles on
two other interesting cellular automata: HighLife (which is similar
to Life, but has a tiny replicator) and Day & Night (which is very
different, but exhibits many of the same phenomena).  These articles
can be found on his website (http://tip.net.au/~dbell/).

ERRORS AND OMISSIONS
  If you find any errors (including typos) or serious omissions, then
please email b3s23life[at]gmail.com with the details.  As of mid-2018
this email address is monitored by Dave Greene.

NAMES
  When deciding whether to use full or abbreviated forms of forenames
I have tried, wherever possible, to follow the usage of the person
concerned.

QUOTE
  Every other author may aspire to praise; the lexicographer can only
hope to escape reproach.  -- Samuel Johnson, 1775

DEDICATION
  This lexicon is dedicated to the memory of Dieter Leithner, who died
on 26 February 1999.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
